##	What is Data Warehousing?
A Data Warehousing (DW) is process for collecting and managing data from varied sources to provide meaningful business insights.
It is a process of transforming data into information

A Data warehouse is typically used to connect and analyze business data from heterogeneous sources.
The data warehouse is the core of the BI system which is built for data analysis and reporting.
 
##What is Data Mining?
 Data mining is looking for patterns in the data that may lead to higher sales and profits.

##	Why We Need Data Warehouse?

-Data warehouse allows users to access critical data from the number of sources in a single place.
 Therefore, it saves user's time of retrieving data from multiple sources.
 
-Data warehouse stores a large amount of historical data. 
 This helps users to analyze different time periods and trends to make future predictions.
 
##	Characteristics of Data warehouse:

Subject-Oriented
A data warehouse is subject oriented as it offers information regarding a theme instead of companies' ongoing operations. 
These subjects can be sales, marketing, distributions, etc.

Integrated
Data is collected from multiple sources and integrated in one place with proper formats,naming conventions etc

Time-variant
Information stored in DW should be available within the  prescribed stipulated timeline

Non-volatile
Means the previous data is not erased when new data is entered in it.

##	What is Business Intelligence?
--BI(Business Intelligence) is a set of processes, architectures, and technologies that convert raw data into meaningful information 
  that drives profitable business actions.
--It is a suite of software and services to transform data into actionable intelligence and knowledge.

--BI has a direct impact on organization's strategic, tactical and operational business decisions.
--BI supports fact-based decision making using historical data rather than assumptions and gut feeling.

BI tools perform data analysis and create reports, summaries, dashboards, maps, graphs, and
charts to provide users with detailed intelligence about the nature of the business.

##	Some of the tools used for BI:

*Excel

*Reporting tool
 -Tableau
 -Qlik view
 -SAP Business Objects
 -IBM Cognos
 
*OLAP Tool
 -Hyperion Cubes
 -SQL server reporting services
 
*Data Mining tools 
 
 
##	Data warehouse architecture:

Three-Tier Data Warehouse Architecture
Generally a data warehouses adopts a three-tier architecture.

Bottom Tier − The bottom tier of the architecture is the data warehouse database server. 
			  It is the relational database system. We use the back end tools and utilities to feed data into the bottom tier.
			  These back end tools and utilities perform the Extract, Clean, Load, and refresh functions.

Middle Tier − In the middle tier, we have the OLAP Server that can be implemented in either of the following ways.

				By Relational OLAP (ROLAP), which is an extended relational database management system. 
				The ROLAP maps the operations on multidimensional data to standard relational operations.

			    By Multidimensional OLAP (MOLAP) model, which directly implements the multidimensional data and operations.

Top-Tier − 	This tier is the front-end client layer. This layer holds the query tools and reporting tools, analysis tools and data mining tools.


##	Purpose of Staging area:

A data staging area (DSA) is a temporary storage area between the data sources and a data warehouse.
The staging area is used to combine data from multiple data sources and apply transformations, validations, data cleansing.
