###	What is Dimensional Model?

	A dimensional model is a data structure technique optimized for Data warehousing tools. 

		-A Dimensional model is designed to read, summarize, analyze numeric information like values, balances, counts, weights, etc. in a data warehouse. 
			In contrast, relation models are optimized for addition, updating and deletion of data in a real-time Online Transaction System.

		-These dimensional and relational models have their unique way of data storage that has specific advantages.

		-For instance, in the relational mode, normalization and ER models reduce redundancy in data.
			On the contrary, dimensional model arranges data in such a way that it is easier to retrieve information and generate reports.

	Hence, Dimensional models are used in data warehouse systems and not a good fit for relational systems.

Elements of Dimensional Data model:

Fact :
Facts are the measurements/metrics or facts from your business process. For a Sales business process, a measurement would be quarterly sales number

### Types of Facts:
Additive: 
	Measures that can be added across all dimensions
	A sales fact is a good example for additive fact.

Semi Additive: 
	Measures that can be added across few dimensions and not with others
	Daily balances fact can be summed up through the customers dimension but not through the time dimension.
	
Non Additive: 
	Measures that cannot be added across all dimensions
	Facts which have percentages, ratios calculated.
	
Factless facts:
	Fact table that contains no measures or facts.
	Fact table which has only product key and date key is a factless fact.



Dimension :
Dimension provides the context surrounding a business process event (facts). In simple terms, they give who, what, where of a fact. 
In the Sales business process, for the fact quarterly sales number, dimensions would be

Customer, Products, Location

A dimension table consists of the attributes about the facts. 

Types of schema:

Star schema: 
	A star schema is the one in which a central fact table (which is in 3NF) is sourrounded by denormalized dimensional tables.
	It has simple structure and most widely used schema in datawarehouse
	Greater query efficiency
	
	Characteristics:
	The dimension table is joined to the fact table using a foreign key
	The dimension table are not joined to each other
	

Snowflake schema:
A Snowflake Schema is an extension of a Star Schema, and it adds additional dimensions. 
Snowflake schemas normalize dimensions to eliminate redundancy. ie the dimension data has been grouped into multiple tables instead of one large table. 




