ENTITY RELATIONAL (ER) MODEL is a high-level conceptual data model.
ER modeling helps you to analyze data requirements systematically to produce a well-designed database.
The Entity-Relation model represents real-world entities and the relationship between them. 
It is a GUI representation of the logical structure of a Database

###	Why use ER Diagrams?
	-Provide a preview of how all your tables should connect, what fields are going to be on each table
	-Helps to describe entities, attributes, relationships
	-ER diagrams are translatable into relational tables which allows you to build databases quickly
	-ER diagrams can be used by database designers as a blueprint for implementing data in specific software applications
	-The database designer gains a better understanding of the information to be contained in the database with the help of ER diagram

###	Components of the ER Diagram

	*Entities
	*Attributes
	*Relationships
	
*Entity

	An Entity may be an object with a physical existence
	An entity can be place, person, object, event or a concept, which stores data in the database
	
	In the ER model, an entity can be represented as rectangles.
	
	Entity Types:
	
	   Weak Entity
		An entity that depends on another entity called a weak entity.
		The weak entity doesn't contain any key attribute that uniquely identifies it. 
		The weak entity is represented by a double rectangle.

	   Strong Entity
		An entity which doesnot depend on any other entity.
		It has a key attribute that uniquely identifies it.
		Strong entity is represented by single rectangle
		
*Attributes

	The attribute is used to describe the property of an entity. 
	Attributes of a student can be id, age, contact number, name, etc.
	
	Eclipse is used to represent an attribute.
	
	Attribute Types:
	
		Key Attribute
		
		   The attribute which uniquely identifies each entity in the entity set is called key attribute.
		   For example, Roll_No will be unique for each student. 
		   In ER model, key attribute is represented by an oval with underlying lines.
		   
	   Composite Attribute
	   
		   An attribute composed of many other attribute is called as composite attribute.
		   For example, Address attribute of student Entity type consists of Street, City, State, and Country. 
		   In ER model, composite attribute is represented by an oval comprising of ovals.
		   
	   Multivalued Attribute
	   
		   An attribute consisting more than one value for a given entity.
		   For example, Phone_No (can be more than one for a given student).
		   In ER model, multivalued attribute is represented by double oval.
		   
	   Derived Attribute
	   
		   An attribute which can be derived from other attributes of the entity type is known as derived attribute.
		   For example,  Age (can be derived from DOB).
		   In ER diagram, derived attribute is represented by dashed oval.

*Relationships

	A relationship is used to describe the relation between entities.
	
	Diamond or rhombus is used to represent the relationship.
	
	A relationship type represents the association between entity types.
	For example,‘Enrolled in’ is a relationship type that exists between entity type Student and Course.
	In ER diagram, relationship type is represented by a diamond and connecting the entities with lines.
	
	Degree of a relationship set:
		The number of different entity sets participating in a relationship set is called as degree of a relationship set.

		Unary Relationship –only ONE entity set participating in a relation
			 For example, one person is married to only one person.

		Binary Relationship –TWO entities set participating in a relation
			For example, Student is enrolled in Course.
			
		n-ary Relationship –n entities set participating in a relation
		
	Cardinality:
		The number of times an entity of an entity set participates in a relationship
		
		One-to-one:
			One entity from entity set X can be associated with at most one entity of entity set Y and vice versa.
			For example: A male can marry to one female and a female can marry to one male
			
		One-To-Many:
			One entity from entity set X, and more than one entity from entity set Y associates with the relationship 
			For example, one class is consisting of multiple students.
			
		Many-To-One
			 More than one entity from entity set X, and only One entity from entity set Y associates with the relationship
			 For example, many students belong to the same class.
		
		Many-To-Many
			One entity from X can be associated with more than one entity from Y and vice versa.
			For example, a student can take more than one course and one course can be taken by many students. 
		
###	ER model disadvantages:

No graphical user interface (GUI) that takes an general ER model and makes it usable by end users

Reference:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-er-model/
https://www.javatpoint.com/dbms-er-model-concept
https://www.guru99.com/er-diagram-tutorial-dbms.html

	   
	   


