## OLAP (Online Analytical Processing)
It is a technology that enables analysts to extract and view business data from different points of view. 

At the core of the OLAP, concept is an OLAP Cube. The OLAP cube is a data structure optimized for very quick data analysis.

Some of the analytical operations of OLAP:

Roll-up			-known as 'aggregation'
Drill-down		-data is fragmented into smaller parts
Slice 			-one dimension is selected, and a new sub-cube is created.
Dice			-you can select 2 or more dimensions that result in the creation of a sub-cube.
Pivot (rotate)	-you rotate the data axes to provide a substitute presentation of data.

(Reference :https://www.guru99.com/online-analytical-processing.html)

##	Types of OLAP

**ROLAP:
Relational OLAP (ROLAP), which is an extended relational database management system. 
The ROLAP maps the operations on multidimensional data to standard relational operations.

**MOLAP:
Multidimensional OLAP (MOLAP) model, which directly implements the multidimensional data and operations.

**HOLAP:
In HOLAP approach the aggregated totals are stored in a multidimensional database while the detailed data is stored in the relational database

**DOLAP:
In Desktop OLAP, a user downloads a part of the data from the database locally, or on their desktop and analyze it.


##	OLTP vs OLAP

**OLTP (Online Transactional Processing):
OLTP is a type of data processing that executes transaction-focused tasks. 
It involves inserting, deleting, or updating small quantities of database data.
It is often used for financial transactions, order entry, retail sales and CRM.

OLTP uses traditional DBMS.
Tables in OLTP database are normalized.
Allow read/write operations.
Queries in this process are standardized and simple.
Complete backup of the data combined with incremental backups
Designed for real time business operations.
DB design is application oriented. Example: Database design changes with industry like Retail, Airline, Banking, etc.


**OLAP (Online Analytical Processing):
A category of software tools which provide analysis of data for business decisions.
The primary objective here is data analysis and not data processing.
OLAP creates a single platform for all type of business analytical needs which includes planning, budgeting, forecasting, and analysis.

OLAP uses the data warehouse.
Tables in OLAP database are not normalized.
Mostly select operations
Complex queries involving aggregations.
OLAP only need a backup from time to time. Backup is not important compared to OLTP
DB design is subject oriented. Example: Database design changes with subjects like sales, marketing, purchasing, etc.

